[AI-5069] DDS: Juniper SRX Firewall Integration v1.0.0 (#19749)
DataDog/integrations-core: juniper_srx_firewall/README.md

## Overview

> [Juniper SRX Firewall][3] protects your network edge, data center network, and cloud applications. It offers accurately predicting intrusions, malware, and other threats.

Author: Done 👍

This integration parses the following types of logs:

> - **Session Logs** : Logs provide information about network traffic and session activities in the Juniper SRX Firewall, offering details on initiated and denied sessions, application-related traffic, and dropped packets.

Author: Done 👍

> - **Security Logs** : Logs provide information about security events on the Juniper SRX Firewall, offering details on malware detections, intrusion attempts, DoS attacks, and content filtering activities.

Author: Done 👍

> - **Authentication Logs** : Logs provide information about authentication activities on the Juniper SRX Firewall, capturing details of successful and failed login attempts.

Author: Done 👍

> Visualize detailed insights into these logs through the out-of-the-box dashboards. Additionally, ready-to-use Cloud SIEM detection rules are available to help you monitor and respond to potential security threats effectively.

Author: Done 👍

## Setup

### Installation

To install the Juniper SRX Firewall integration, run the following Agent installation command in your terminal, then complete the configuration steps below. For more information, see the [Integration Management][4] documentation.

**Note**: This step is not necessary for Agent version >= 7.64.0.

```shell
sudo -u dd-agent -- datadog-agent integration install datadog-juniper_srx_firewall==1.0.0
```

> ### Configuration

Reviewer: I think it might make more sense to swap the "Log collection" and the "Configure syslog message forwarding from Juniper SRX Firewall" sections. 

In step (2) of Log collection, you talk about setting the port and reference steps that come after -- this proposed new structure would allow us to instead explain the port details FIRST and then refer back to what users have already learned/done.

So the flow would be the following (which I think still makes sense):
1. Configure Syslog Message Forwarding from Juniper SRX Firewall 
    - Users set up the firewall first so it knows where to send logs.
    - They select the port at this step.
2. Log Collection (Datadog Agent Configuration)
    - Now that the firewall is sending logs, they configure the Datadog Agent to receive them.
    - The port is already set from earlier, so the note about matching it makes more sense.

Author: Here’s our thought process to keep the **Log Collection** section first: we start by configuring the receiver (in our case, the Datadog agent) and ensure it’s up and running. Then, we proceed with the sender side configuration (Juniper SRX firewall) using the same port. Once the sender is properly configured, the receiver will immediately start collecting logs. Please let us know your thoughts on the same.

Author: I removed the port note from line 47 and updated the port note on line 68 to ```Replace `<PORT>` with the same port configured in the [Log Collection](#configure-log-collection).```.

#### Log collection

> 1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in `datadog.yaml`:

Author: Done 👍

   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

2. Add this configuration block to your `juniper_srx_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your logs.

>    See the sample [juniper_srx_firewall.d/conf.yaml][6] for available configuration options.

Author: Done 👍

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: udp
       port: <PORT>
       source: juniper-srx-firewall
       service: juniper-srx-firewall
   ```

   **Note**:

>    - `PORT`: Port should be similar to the port provided in **Configure syslog message forwarding from Juniper SRX Firewall** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `PORT`: Use the same port configured for [syslog message forwarding](#configure-syslog-message-forwarding-from-juniper-srx-firewall).
```

Author: Done 👍

>    - It is recommended not to change the service and source values, as these parameters are integral to the pipeline's operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Do not change the `service` and `source` values, as they are integral to proper log pipeline processing.
```

Author: Done 👍

3. [Restart the Agent][2].

#### Configure syslog message forwarding from Juniper SRX Firewall

> 1. Log in to your Juniper SRX Firewall CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the Juniper SRX Firewall CLI.
```

Author: Done 👍

> 2. To enter configuration mode, execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter configuration mode:
```

Author: Done 👍

   ```shell
   configure
   ```

3. To send logs to the Datadog Agent, execute the following commands:
   ```shell
   set system syslog host <IP-ADDRESS> any any
   set system syslog host <IP-ADDRESS> port <PORT>
   set system syslog host <IP-ADDRESS> structured-data brief

>    ```

Reviewer: We should include details about the `IP-ADDRESS` and `PORT` values, perhaps somethine like:

* Replace `<IP-ADDRESS>` with the Datadog Agent's IP address.
* Replace `<PORT>` with the UDP port Datadog will listen on (default: `514`)

Author: Done 👍

> 4. To check whether `Security Logging` is enabled or not, execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Verify if `Security Logging` is enabled:
```

Author: Done 👍

   ```shell
   show security log mode
   ```
   If enabled, the output will display either `mode stream;` or `mode event-stream;`

> 5. If `Security Logging` is enabled, then execute the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If `Security Logging` is enabled, configure log streaming:
```

Author: Done 👍

   ```shell
   set security log stream <NAME> format sd-syslog
   set security log stream <NAME> category all
   set security log stream <NAME> host <IP-ADDRESS>
   set security log stream <NAME> host port <PORT>
   set security log transport protocol udp
   ```

> 6. To apply the configuration, execute the following command:
>    ```
>    commit
>    ```
> 
> 7. To exit configuration mode, execute the following command:
>    ```
>    exit
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Apply and exit the configuration:

    commit
    exit
   
```

Reviewer: I think my suggestion isn't rendering properly, but the gist is that I think we can combine steps 6 and 7 into one step.

Author: Sure, Combined 6 and 7 steps.

### Validation

> [Run the Agent's status subcommand][5] and look for `juniper_srx_firewall` under the Checks section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Run the Agent's status subcommand][5] and look for `juniper_srx_firewall` under the **Checks** section.
```

Author: Done 👍

## Data Collected

### Log

| Format                    | Event Types                                      |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Structured-Data(RFC 5424) | Session Logs, Security Logs, Authentication Logs |

### Metrics

The Juniper SRX Firewall integration does not include any metrics.

### Events

The Juniper SRX Firewall integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

The Juniper SRX Firewall integration does not include any service checks.

## Troubleshooting

> **Permission denied while port binding:**

Reviewer: Suggesting sub-headers for each part of the Troubleshooting section for clarity and easier navigation.

```suggestion
### Permission denied while port binding
```

Author: Done 👍

If you see a **Permission denied** error while port binding in the Agent logs:

1. Binding to a port number under 1024 requires elevated permissions. Grant access to the port using the `setcap` command:

   ```shell
   sudo setcap CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE=+ep /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
   ```

2. Verify the setup is correct by running the `getcap` command:

   ```shell
   sudo getcap /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
   ```

   With the expected output:

   ```shell
   /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent = cap_net_bind_service+ep
   ```

   **Note**: Re-run this `setcap` command every time you upgrade the Agent.

3. [Restart the Agent][2].

> **Data is not being collected:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data is not being collected
```

Author: Done 👍

> Ensure traffic is bypassed from the configured port if the firewall is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure firewall settings allow traffic through the configured port.
```

Author: Done 👍

> **Port already in use:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Port already in use
```

Author: Done 👍

> If you see the **Port <PORT_NUMBER> Already in Use** error, see the following instructions. The following example is for port 514:
> 
> - On systems using Syslog, if the Agent listens for events on port 514, the following error can appear in the Agent logs: `Can't start UDP forwarder on port 514: listen udp :514: bind: address already in use`. This error occurs because by default, Syslog listens on port 514. To resolve this error, take **one** of the following steps:
>   - Disable Syslog.
>   - Configure the Agent to listen on a different, available port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

On systems running Syslog, the Agent may fail to bind to port 514 and display the following error: 

    Can't start UDP forwarder on port 514: listen udp :514: bind: address already in use

This error occurs because Syslog uses port 514 by default. 

To resolve:
  - Disable Syslog, OR
  - Configure the Agent to listen on a different, available port.
```

Author: Done 👍

- **Authentication Logs**: Capture authentication activities, including successful and failed login attempts.

Get detailed visibility into these logs with out-of-the-box dashboards, and strengthen security with prebuilt Cloud SIEM detection rules for proactive threat monitoring and response.

## Setup

### Installation

To install the Juniper SRX Firewall integration, run the following Agent installation command in your terminal. For more information, see the [Integration Management][4] documentation.

**Note**: This step is not necessary for Agent version >= 7.64.0.

```shell
sudo -u dd-agent -- datadog-agent integration install datadog-juniper_srx_firewall==1.0.0
```

### Configuration

#### Configure log collection

1. Log collection is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in `datadog.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

2. Add the following configuration block to your `juniper_srx_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting logs. See the [sample `conf.yaml`][6] for available configuration options.

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: udp
       port: <PORT>
       source: juniper-srx-firewall
       service: juniper-srx-firewall
   ```

   **Note**:

> 

Reviewer: I still think we need to give some note/instruction here about what to set the port to. It just should be a standalone instruction that doesn't refer to steps later on.

Author: I added a port note as: 
```
`PORT`: Specify the UDP port that Datadog will listen on (default: 514).
```

   - Do not change the `service` and `source` values, as they are integral to proper log pipeline processing.

3. [Restart the Agent][2].

#### Configure syslog message forwarding from Juniper SRX Firewall

1. Log in to the Juniper SRX Firewall CLI.

2. Enter configuration mode:
   ```shell
   configure
   ```

3. To send logs to the Datadog Agent, execute the following commands:
   ```shell
   set system syslog host <IP-ADDRESS> any any
   set system syslog host <IP-ADDRESS> port <PORT>
   set system syslog host <IP-ADDRESS> structured-data brief
   ```
   **Note**:
   - Replace `<IP-ADDRESS>` with the Datadog Agent's IP address.

>    - Replace `<PORT>` with the same port configured in the [Log Collection](#configure-log-collection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Replace `<PORT>` with the same port configured in [Log Collection](#configure-log-collection).
```

Author: Done 👍

## Overview

[Juniper SRX Firewall][3] secures your network edge, data center, and cloud applications by detecting and mitigating intrusions, malware, and other threats.

This integration parses the following log types:

> - **Session Logs** : Track network traffic and session activities, including initiated and denied sessions, application-related traffic, and dropped packets.
> - **Security Logs** : Monitor security events such as malware detections, intrusion attempts, DoS attacks, and content filtering activities.
> - **Authentication Logs** : Capture authentication activities, including successful and failed login attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Session Logs**: Track network traffic and session activities, including initiated and denied sessions, application-related traffic, and dropped packets.
- **Security Logs**: Monitor security events such as malware detections, intrusion attempts, DoS attacks, and content filtering activities.
- **Authentication Logs**: Capture authentication activities, including successful and failed login attempts.
```

Author: Done 👍

Get detailed visibility into these logs with out-of-the-box dashboards, and strengthen security with prebuilt Cloud SIEM detection rules for proactive threat monitoring and response.

## Setup

### Installation

To install the Juniper SRX Firewall integration, run the following Agent installation command in your terminal. For more information, see the [Integration Management][4] documentation.

**Note**: This step is not necessary for Agent version >= 7.64.0.

```shell
sudo -u dd-agent -- datadog-agent integration install datadog-juniper_srx_firewall==1.0.0
```

> ### Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure log collection
```

> #### Log collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #### Log collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Configure log collection
```

Author: Done 👍

1. Log collection is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in `datadog.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

> 2. Add the following configuration block to your `juniper_srx_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting logs. See the sample [juniper_srx_firewall.d/conf.yaml][6] for available configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the following configuration block to your `juniper_srx_firewall.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting logs. See the sample [`conf.yaml`][6] for available configuration options.
```

Author: Done 👍

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: udp
       port: <PORT>
       source: juniper-srx-firewall
       service: juniper-srx-firewall
   ```

   **Note**:

   - `PORT`: Use the same port configured for [syslog message forwarding](#configure-syslog-message-forwarding-from-juniper-srx-firewall).
   - Do not change the `service` and `source` values, as they are integral to proper log pipeline processing.

3. [Restart the Agent][2].

> #### Configure syslog message forwarding from Juniper SRX Firewall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure syslog message forwarding from Juniper SRX Firewall
```

The Juniper SRX Firewall integration does not include any metrics.

### Events

The Juniper SRX Firewall integration does not include any events.

### Service Checks

The Juniper SRX Firewall integration does not include any service checks.

## Troubleshooting

### Permission denied while port binding

If you see a **Permission denied** error while port binding in the Agent logs:

1. Binding to a port number under 1024 requires elevated permissions. Grant access to the port using the `setcap` command:

   ```shell
   sudo setcap CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE=+ep /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
   ```

2. Verify the setup is correct by running the `getcap` command:

   ```shell
   sudo getcap /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent
   ```

   With the expected output:

   ```shell
   /opt/datadog-agent/bin/agent/agent = cap_net_bind_service+ep
   ```

   **Note**: Re-run this `setcap` command every time you upgrade the Agent.

3. [Restart the Agent][2].

### Data is not being collected

Ensure firewall settings allow traffic through the configured port.

### Port already in use

On systems running Syslog, the Agent may fail to bind to port 514 and display the following error: 
   

>    `Can't start UDP forwarder on port 514: listen udp :514: bind: address already in use`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Can't start UDP forwarder on port 514: listen udp :514: bind: address already in use
```

Author: Done 👍

   ```
   **Note**:
   - Replace `<IP-ADDRESS>` with the Datadog Agent's IP address.

>    - Replace `<PORT>` with the same port configured in [Log Collection](#configure-log-collection).

Reviewer: This is actually the correct/preferred way to link to headers within the same page!
